Baby Pool App

Build a baby shower app using flask, react and sqlite that is responsive design with a simple, sleek and baby-shower appropriate design.
Overview of the app: App is called "Baby Pool." Users will be able to choose guesses for when the baby will be born, each guess has a set price the user will pay to the host to contribute to the pool for the winner(s). They can choose guesses for the date, guesses for the hour of the day and guesses for the exact minute of the hour the baby will be born. Each guess type is its own 'pool' and will have individually 1 winner each. Host users for an event are the only users who need to log in with actual credentials. Host users will be able to see the email, first name and last name of the guests as well as their guess selections and payment method preferences. They will also be able to see all of the guesses.
Specific feature behaviors of the app:
On All Pages (excluding login/entry page):
Toggle for light and dark mode, which toggles the appearance accordingly (is visible throughout app)
Links (if exist) for external baby shower site and to email the host
QR code to venmo developer with note, “Like this app? Buy me a coffee. Venmo Sadie Flick @Sadie-Flick” (QR image also here attached in prompt)
Login Page Elements (and behaviors):
A button/link to log in as a host, that goes to the host sign-in/registration page
Field for guest login to enter their email, or enter the event code (given by host), or search for the first and last name of the mother-to-be.
If enters email:
Check if email/account exists, either from invite list or prior user creation
If not in database save email in session and redirect to enter event code or search for mother-to-be
If email exists but they have not already logged in before, they will be prompted to enter a nickname (optional) and their first and/or last name if the host did not provide that information initially
Otherwise, return them to the primary guessing page for their associated event
If searching by first and/or last name of the mother-to-be, query will show resulting events in the following format: “Mother-to-be: [FULL NAME OF MOTHER-TO-BE]” along with the name of the host, “Hosted by: [FULL NAME OF HOST]”. The guest can choose from the results. If no results, tell them to ask the host for the event code, or try again.
Guest-Event Login after selecting queried event:
If email not in session: Guest should enter their email or first and last name if they don’t possess an email.
Log them in if account exists or if not, create a new user account using their email or full name and associate it with that event.
Prompt them to enter any primary account info that they are missing -- email, first and last name, and nickname (optional) and payment method preference (venmo or cash, “How do you want to pay [HOST FIRST NAME] for the pool?”). 
If they do not enter an email, they should be prompted to enter their phone number, so the host can still contact them for payment. 
Note: payment will not be integrated into the app, as the host will conduct this separately.
Users may be associated with many events. 
Email validations should apply if they enter an email, i.e. uniqueness, valid email format.
Users whose sessions have not expired should be returned to the page they were on last time. Sessions should expire after a month, or once the date of the event has passed.
Main Guest Landing Page Elements/Feature-Behaviors:
Username/log-in display in an upper corner with nickname or if no nickname, first name and last initial
Theme-choice banner with event title (chosen by the host of the event)
Any picture uploaded by admin displayed with the event title within the theme banner (or maybe under event title for responsive mobile display)
Day count-down to event date (smaller), and due date for pool-entry guesses
Title for primary game: “When will the baby be born?”
Big buttons to navigate to the guessing pages:
“Date”
“Time”
“My guesses” (if has guesses already logged)
(New section) Title/Button to go to name-suggestion/guessing page, if the mother-to-be has not yet chosen or revealed a name: “Suggest a baby name!”, or “Guess the baby’s name!” if not revealed but already chosen by parents. If name game set to off by admin, omit section
Dates Guessing-Game Page Elements:
A back button or Link to go back to the main guest landing page
Include the label prompt  “What date do you think the baby will be born?”
Display the baby’s due date (in text) for reference
Pageable month calendar of dates between a range of 1 month before the due date, and 1 month following the due date. 
Baby’s due date should be highlighted
Users can pick dates, and it will prompt to confirm and save guess, and adds this to the owed amount.
Once a user has picked a date, the date/square on the calendar is greyed out and it should display the guesser’s nick name or first name and last initial. This will show for all users. If the guess is this user’s it shows an option to undo
Hours/minutes Guessing-Game Page Elements:
Text explaining that it is a separate pool for hours and minutes and if you get either right you win that pool, and pointing out that if anyone gets both right they win both pools (jackpot!)
A large time picker with a separate picker for hours (12) with an AM/PM choice and minutes (no am/pm indicated) any hours or minutes already taken will be greyed out and they will not be able to choose those that have been taken by other users, though they can still see that number.

Host (Admin) Login Page Behavior:
If session not expired (already logged in), redirects host dashboard.
Basic login and sign up
Authentication and registration with email and password or oauth sign in with google account.
Includes appropriate authentication validation and data validations, as well as appropriate data security (i.e. storing hashed passwords, using bcrypt, session concerns etc.)
On successful login goes to Host Dashboard, on sign-up goes to step 2 of host registration
Session expiry should be 1 week.
Host Sign-up Registration Step 2:
Field to enter host/admin first and last name (only on admin’s first login) and optional nickname
Brief explanation of how the guessing game works (paragraph)
Clicks through the New Event component to create their first event
‘New Event’ component click-through form as swipe/arrow-forward screens (also used when admin user hits the “+” sign from the dashboard to create a new event)
First page: (not skippable)
Name of mother-to-be
Name of partner (optional)
Editable field for ‘Name for the Event’ with placeholder text “[MOTHER-TO-BE NAME]’s Baby Shower”
Event Date
Baby due date
“Show your email to guests?” toggle on or off
Textfield: Provide a link to baby shower webpage or invite (optional)
How much will guests contribute for each guess? (enter dollar amount) default value is 1$
Second page “Choose a picture” or skip for now:
Field to upload a picture of the mother or couple
Skip option should be prominent
Third page “Choose a Theme” or skip:
Drop down for picking a color palette theme for their event’s pages (shows a static view of theme in light- and dark-mode) (optional, has a default typical palette, that defaults to light), they choose whether to default to dark- or light-mode when a user enters the event for the first time
Skip option should be prominent
Fourth page “Enter Guests” or skip:
Option to copy and paste from a table (google docs or excel), a column of emails of the guests, which will display dynamically once uploaded and saved. 
May also manually enter guest emails, or copy and paste a comma-separated list of emails
Should have a note that says, “Note: guests can also find your event and enter their own emails and information”
Formatting validations
Next (if form filled)
Skip option should be prominent
Fifth Page: “Have guests venmo me” or skip:
Can enter any of the following:
User handle on venmo (enter twice to avoid typos)
If entering user handle must also enter last 4 digits of their phone number
OR - Upload a screenshot of their venmo QR code
Skip option should be prominent
Sixth Page “Add baby name game”:
Clear description of name game. Guests can suggest a name for the baby or guess the chosen name that hasn’t been revealed yet. If they do not know if the baby already has a chosen name, skip for now. Also suggest that they ask the parents before adding this option.
Yes/No radio: Do the parents already have a name for the baby? 
If yes, enter baby’s chosen name
Next or skip for now
Skip option should be prominent
FINISH button or go back to edit (please save any entered info so they don’t have to re-enter it)
On event creation, generate a unique 4-digit event code associated with the event, between 1000 and 9999. When an event’s date has passed this 4-digit code is now available again. If no 4-digit codes are available, may provide a unique code with greater than 4 digits
Host Dashboard:
Overview: Host landing page has a stats banner and a parent game display component which by default, shows the calendar date guesses as a scrollable 2-month calendar with first and last initial of guessers. Component has a nav bar (appears as tabs) to navigate between guessing game components (dates, times, names)
Host Dashboard Components:
Display the the auto-generated event code to give to guests
Stats Banner: 
Number of guests who have logged in, and total number of guests so far (invitees and guests who added themselves)
Total date guesses
Total hour and minute guesses
Total name guesses (if applicable)
Totals of guests whose status is PAID, and PENDING
Guess Game Data Tabs:
Tab 1: Expanded calendar with nickname or first and last initial of guests in their selected squares/days
Tab 2: Square grid of all 24 hours, with an hour listed in each square i.e. “1am”, 
Tab 3: Square grid of all 60 minutes, a minute listed in each square i.e. “00:35”, that have been guessed/taken should be a light shade of green (user paid in full already) or pink (user payment pending) and should display the name of the guest who chose it.
For Tabs 1, 2, and 3:
Days, Hours and Minutes that have been guessed/taken should be a light shade of green (user paid in full already) or pink (user payment pending) and should display the name of the guest who chose it.
When clicking on a guess, the host sees a user component pop-up/overlay with the following info:
Guest’s nickname
first and last name
contact info
Can click into username to see expanded guest user info page
Tab 4: Guest list:
And ‘Add guest’ field to type in a new guest email
Lists all guests as rows with: 
Full name, Nickname, opens expanded guest user info page when clicked
Total guesses
Payment status (Paid or Pending -- calculated from total paid and owed)
Mark Paid or Mark Unpaid action based on current status (and adjusts paid amount)
Delete option --- can only delete an email/user if the associated user has never logged in, asks to confirm deletion
Guest User Info Page (Accessible from Host Dashboard)
(Accessible mainly through guest-list tab, but other places as specified)
Displays:
Nickname, Full-name, contact info
Total guesses
Total paid
Total owed
Guesses (listed as text) by category-- dates, times, baby names (if applicable)
Payment method preference (cash or venmo)
Payment status: Displays Paid, Pending or Partial total:
Note: Shows total paid of total owed
Edit actions (with clear wording in label): 
Mark paid (paid amount set equal to owed amount, status now paid, but will change back to pending if they make more guesses)
Enter amount (adds custom entry to total paid so far)
Mark unpaid (sets total paid back to 0)
Can delete individual guesses, but will have a confirmation prompt to be sure they want to erase that user’s guess.
Back navigation to last visited guessing game data display
Event Settings Page (Link on Host Dashboard)
Include all the options included in event set up but as a settings page that saves when changed, and changes data and displays appropriately for guests as well.
	


